Update Kyma installation documentation (#2347)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/kyma/docs/036-inst-custom-component-installation.md

---
title: Custom component installation
type: Installation
---

> Since Kyma is a modular tool, you can remove some components so that they do not install together with Kyma. You can also add some of them after the installation process. Read this document to learn how.

Author: Both versions are correct. If you prefer the second one, I do not mind changing it but personally, I prefer the first option since it is in active voice which is more acceptable from our guidelines perspective. We can discuss this linguistic issue later 😉

> Since Kyma is a modular tool, you can remove some components so that they do not install together with Kyma. You can also add some of them after the installation process. Read this document to learn how.

Reviewer: ah ye indeed, I forgot about this eternal dis of passive voice :) let's keep it as it is

### Installation from sources

1. Configure the file:
  * If you want to install Kyma from sources **locally** without a given component, remove the component's **name** and **namespace** from the [installer-cr.yaml.tpl](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/installation/resources/installer-cr.yaml.tpl) file.

  * If you want to install Kyma from sources on a **cluster** without a given component, remove the component's **name** and **namespace** from the [installer-cr-cluster.yaml.tpl](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/installation/resources/installer-cr-cluster.yaml.tpl) file.

2. Follow the installation steps described in the [Install Kyma locally from sources](#installation-install-kyma-locally-from-sources) document, or [Install Kyma on a GKE cluster](#installation-install-kyma-on-a-gke-cluster) accordingly.

### Verify the installation

1. Check if all Pods are running in the `kyma-system` Namespace:
  ```
  kubectl get pods -n kyma-system
  ```

> 2. Sign in to the Kyma Console using the `admin@kyma.cx` as described in the **Install Kyma locally from the release** document.

Author: oops..

> ## Add a component

Author: > d the Ark is m

Discussed.

  * from the `kyma-config-cluster.yaml` file for the **cluster** installation

3. Follow the installation steps described in the [Install Kyma locally from the release](#installation-install-kyma-locally-from-the-release) document, or [Install Kyma on a GKE cluster](#installation-install-kyma-on-a-gke-cluster) accordingly.

### Installation from sources

1. Customize installation by removing a component from the list of components in the following Installation resource:
  * [installer-cr.yaml.tpl](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/installation/resources/installer-cr.yaml.tpl)  for the **local** installation
  *  [installer-cr-cluster.yaml.tpl](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/master/installation/resources/installer-cr-cluster.yaml.tpl) for the **cluster** installation

2. Follow the installation steps described in the [Install Kyma locally from sources](#installation-install-kyma-locally-from-sources) document, or [Install Kyma on a GKE cluster](#installation-install-kyma-on-a-gke-cluster) accordingly.

### Verify the installation

1. Check if all Pods are running in the `kyma-system` Namespace:
  ```
  kubectl get pods -n kyma-system
  ```

> 2. Sign in to the Kyma Console using the `admin@kyma.cx` as described in the [Install Kyma locally from the release](#installation-install-kyma-locally-from-the-release) document.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't the referenced doc names be in bold? - that comment applies to all references in this PR.

> 2. Sign in to the Kyma Console using the `admin@kyma.cx` as described in the [Install Kyma locally from the release](#installation-install-kyma-locally-from-the-release) document.

Author: Since we already provide links, I do not think we should put doc names in bold. It was a temporary solution invented for cases where linking was not possible.

## Add a component

>**NOTE:** This section assumes that you already have your Kyma Lite local version installed successfully.

> To install a component that does not install with Kyma by default, run an appropriate `helm install` command inside the `resources` directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install a component that is not installed with Kyma by default, run an appropriate `helm install` command inside the `resources` directory:
```

> To install a component that does is not installed with Kyma by default, run an appropriate `helm install` command inside the `resources` directory:

Reviewer: we can simplify this section, remove all those custom helm installations and simply give instruction which I just tested.

If you want to install component that is not available in kyma lite:
1. Edit **Installation** resource: `kubectl edit installation kyma-installation`
2. Uncomment the component you want to install in the list of components and save your change
3. Trigger installation `kubectl label installation/kyma-installation action=install`
4. Monitor installation progress with `./scripts/is-installed.sh` triggered from `installation` directory
